Day008/day008.md, before:

# Day 8

## Notes

### Type inference

1. To specify a type, add a colon after the variable name
2. For numbers, you can say the type after the number
3. You can also add `_`
4. It doesn't matter how many _ you use:

```rust
fn main() {
    // 1
    let small_number1: u8 = 10;
    // 2
    let small_number2 = 10u8;
    // 3
    let small_number3 = 10_u8;
    // 4
    let small_number4 = 10_____u8;
}
```

- [Rust Playground](https://play.rust-lang.org/?version=stable&mode=debug&edition=2021&gist=f9a6306c4cf9142dd8f96820fb5c7ecd)

### The first function

```rust
fn main() {
    println!("Hello, world!");
}
```

- `fn`: **funtion**
- `main()`: **entry point**
- `(something about argument)`: **argument** for the code block of funtion
- `{}`: **code block**

The following code blocks are different. One has "`;`", on the other hand doesn't.

*Correct*

```rust
fn main() {
    println!("{}", hello());
}

fn hello() -> &'static str {
    "Hello, world!"
}
```

*Incorrect*

```rust
fn main() {
    println!("{}", hello());
}

fn hello() -> &'static str {
    "Hello, world!";
}
```

```text
implicitly returns `()` as its body has no tail or `return` expression "Hello, world!";
```
## Key Takeaways

Commit message:

Add 'static lifetime is the maximum lifetime that can be attached to a reference to a value that is valid for the entire time the program is running.

Day008/day008.md, after:

# Day 8

## Notes

### Type inference

1. To specify a type, add a colon after the variable name
2. For numbers, you can say the type after the number
3. You can also add `_`
4. It doesn't matter how many _ you use:

```rust
fn main() {
    // 1
    let small_number1: u8 = 10;
    // 2
    let small_number2 = 10u8;
    // 3
    let small_number3 = 10_u8;
    // 4
    let small_number4 = 10_____u8;
}
```

- [Rust Playground](https://play.rust-lang.org/?version=stable&mode=debug&edition=2021&gist=f9a6306c4cf9142dd8f96820fb5c7ecd)

### The first function

```rust
fn main() {
    println!("Hello, world!");
}
```

- `fn`: **funtion**
- `main()`: **entry point**
- `(something about argument)`: **argument** for the code block of funtion
- `{}`: **code block**

The following code blocks are different. One has "`;`", on the other hand doesn't.

*Correct*

```rust
fn main() {
    println!("{}", hello());
}

fn hello() -> &'static str {
    "Hello, world!"
}
```

*Incorrect*

```rust
fn main() {
    println!("{}", hello());
}

fn hello() -> &'static str {
    "Hello, world!";
}
```

```text
implicitly returns `()` as its body has no tail or `return` expression
```

- **`'static`**: `'static` lifetime is the maximum lifetime that can be attached to a reference to a value that is valid for the entire time the program is running.

## Key Takeaways
