Day056/day056.md, before:

# Day 56

## Notes

- `&str` has two types:
  - **String literals**
  - **Borrowed str**

### Static lifetime

- `&'static str`
  - [Static](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rust-by-example/scope/lifetime/static_lifetime.html)
  - [&'static and T: 'static](https://practice.rs/lifetime/static.html)
    - `'`: lifetime
    - `static`:  string literals have a lifetime called `static`

Rust has several reserved lifetime names.
One of them is `'static`

The following sample is a reference with `'static` lifetime:

```rust
let s: &'static str = "hello world";
```

The following sample is **Borrowed `str`**:

```rust
fn main() {
    let my_string = String::from("String");
    function_str(&my_string);
}

fn function_str(my_str: &str) { 
    println!("{my_str}");
}
```

### Dangling References

![image](https://github.com/shinyay/100DaysOfLearnRustInOneMonthOfLunches/assets/3072734/89e5571e-bc44-454e-b76e-949340433b55)

- [Dangling References](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch04-02-references-and-borrowing.html#dangling-references)

```rust
fn main() {
    let reference_to_nothing = dangle();
}

fn dangle() -> &String {
    let my_string = String::from("hello");

    &my_string
}
```
## Key Takeaways

when using a str with a 'static lifetime, the data never disappears. So you can return a reference to it.

Commit message:

Add error[E0106]: missing lifetime specifier

Day056/day056.md, after:

# Day 56

## Notes

- `&str` has two types:
  - **String literals**
  - **Borrowed str**

### Static lifetime

- `&'static str`
  - [Static](https://doc.rust-lang.org/rust-by-example/scope/lifetime/static_lifetime.html)
  - [&'static and T: 'static](https://practice.rs/lifetime/static.html)
    - `'`: lifetime
    - `static`:  string literals have a lifetime called `static`

Rust has several reserved lifetime names.
One of them is `'static`

The following sample is a reference with `'static` lifetime:

```rust
let s: &'static str = "hello world";
```

The following sample is **Borrowed `str`**:

```rust
fn main() {
    let my_string = String::from("String");
    function_str(&my_string);
}

fn function_str(my_str: &str) { 
    println!("{my_str}");
}
```

### Dangling References

![image](https://github.com/shinyay/100DaysOfLearnRustInOneMonthOfLunches/assets/3072734/89e5571e-bc44-454e-b76e-949340433b55)

- [Dangling References](https://doc.rust-lang.org/book/ch04-02-references-and-borrowing.html#dangling-references)

The following sample occurs an error:

```rust
fn main() {
    let reference_to_nothing = dangle();
}

fn dangle() -> &String {
    let my_string = String::from("hello");

    &my_string
}
```

```shell
error[E0106]: missing lifetime specifier
```

## Key Takeaways

when using a str with a 'static lifetime, the data never disappears. So you can return a reference to it.
