Day037/day037.md, before:

# Day 37

## Notes

### WebAssembly on Docker

You need to enable `containerd` to run WebAssembly, so you can configure on your Docker Desktop.

<img width="1261" alt="image" src="https://github.com/shinyay/100DaysOfLearnRustInOneMonthOfLunches/assets/3072734/c3212e9b-45ba-4c7d-9ec5-36654aee6555">

#### Hello World WebAssembly Sample

At first just code for simple, like Hello World.

```rust
fun main() {
    println!("Hello, WebAssembly");
}
```

And then build it.

```shell
cargo init
rustup target add wasm32-wasi
cargo build --target wasm32-wasi --release
```

You can find the Wasm image under `target/wasm32-wasi/release/` directory.

```shell
ls -l target/wasm32-wasi/release/wasm-on-docker.wasm
```

```shell
-rwxr-xr-x  1 yanagiharas  staff  2093833 Jul  7 11:02 target/wasm32-wasi/release/wasm-on-docker.wasm*
```

So now you can run the Wasm with `wasmtime`.

```shell
wasmtime target/wasm32-wasi/release/wasm-on-docker.wasm
```

```shell
Hello, WebAssembly
```

#### Rust Docker Image

You find the Rust Container Images:

- [Rust - Official Image](https://hub.docker.com/_/rust)

Then you can make the Dockerfile such as the following:

```dockerfile
FROM --platform=$BUILDPLATFORM rust:1.70-slim-bullseye as build

COPY Cargo.toml .
COPY Cargo.lock .
COPY src src

RUN rustup target add wasm32-wasi
RUN cargo build --target wasm32-wasi --release

FROM scratch

COPY --from=build /target/wasm32-wasi/release/wasm-on-docker.wasm /hello.wasm

ENTRYPOINT [ "hello.wasm" ]
```

Then you can run build docker image:

```shell
docker build -f Dockerfile -t docker-wasm:1.0
```

<details>
<summary>[+] Building 23.8s (13/13) FINISHED
 => [internal] load .dockerignore</summary>

```shell
[+] Building 23.8s (13/13) FINISHED
 => [internal] load .dockerignore                                                                                                                                                                    0.0s
 => => transferring context: 2B                                                                                                                                                                      0.0s
 => [internal] load build definition from Dockerfile                                                                                                                                                 0.0s
 => => transferring dockerfile: 356B                                                                                                                                                                 0.0s
 => [internal] load metadata for docker.io/library/rust:1.70-slim-bullseye                                                                                                                           3.4s
 => [auth] library/rust:pull token for registry-1.docker.io                                                                                                                                          0.0s
 => [build 1/6] FROM docker.io/library/rust:1.70-slim-bullseye@sha256:d1f62de1372e7103b9973848c3f873abfb73a6668ce4b0af2fe57fd9e32178b8                                                              11.4s
 => => resolve docker.io/library/rust:1.70-slim-bullseye@sha256:d1f62de1372e7103b9973848c3f873abfb73a6668ce4b0af2fe57fd9e32178b8                                                                     0.0s
 => => sha256:3d32f2bb54c4b0263c632cc36fefdc8b536380d3d8f0a7445ba644fc60bd775c 251.51MB / 251.51MB                                                                                                   5.1s
 => => sha256:9d21b12d5fab9ab82969054d72411ce627c209257df64b6057016c981e163c30 31.42MB / 31.42MB                                                                                                     1.2s
 => => extracting sha256:9d21b12d5fab9ab82969054d72411ce627c209257df64b6057016c981e163c30                                                                                                            2.6s
 => => extracting sha256:3d32f2bb54c4b0263c632cc36fefdc8b536380d3d8f0a7445ba644fc60bd775c                                                                                                            6.3s
 => [internal] load build context                                                                                                                                                                    0.0s
 => => transferring context: 423B                                                                                                                                                                    0.0s
 => [build 2/6] COPY Cargo.toml .                                                                                                                                                                    0.3s
 => [build 3/6] COPY Cargo.lock .                                                                                                                                                                    0.0s
 => [build 4/6] COPY src src                                                                                                                                                                         0.0s
 => [build 5/6] RUN rustup target add wasm32-wasi                                                                                                                                                    5.4s
 => [build 6/6] RUN cargo build --target wasm32-wasi --release                                                                                                                                       0.5s
 => [stage-1 1/1] COPY --from=build /target/wasm32-wasi/release/wasm-on-docker.wasm /hello.wasm                                                                                                      0.0s
 => exporting to image                                                                                                                                                                               0.2s
 => => exporting layers                                                                                                                                                                              0.1s
 => => exporting manifest sha256:822539c4ef50a92108df5803fd2ded1cc870ee5053ae2071c06d22c0b99f928d                                                                                                    0.0s
 => => exporting config sha256:f11794d089d13614297ac9a50a1ff57427098d04d121f0bda9498f535643d1e1                                                                                                      0.0s
 => => exporting attestation manifest sha256:a3bfcc8dec452e41cb6a1ab5f2412374106ae196f8d57cc808efd216e21766d3                                                                                        0.0s
 => => exporting manifest list sha256:11e66d7f7ba5a3b70e4c8d66a03725062b91c55f479fa03a0cc2e2d310b2ddb4                                                                                               0.0s
 => => naming to docker.io/library/docker-wasm:1.0                                                                                                                                                   0.0s
 => => unpacking to docker.io/library/docker-wasm:1.0
```
</details>

#### Hello World Native Rust Sample

```dockerfile
FROM --platform=$BUILDPLATFORM rust:1.70-slim-bullseye as build

COPY Cargo.toml .
COPY Cargo.lock .
COPY src src

RUN RUSTFLAGS='-C target-feature=+crt-static' cargo build --release

FROM scratch

COPY --from=build /target/release/wasm-on-docker /native

ENTRYPOINT [ "native" ]
```

```shell
docker build -f Dockerfile-native -t docker-rust-native:1.0 .
```

```shell
REPOSITORY            TAG                                                     IMAGE ID       CREATED          SIZE
docker-rust-native    1.0                                                     a05879bcefeb   17 seconds ago   7.32MB
docker-wasm           1.0                                                     d03324f56cf5   13 minutes ago   2.61MB
```

## Key Takeaways

Commit message:

Add Running a Wasm application with docker run

Day037/day037.md, after:

# Day 37

## Notes

### WebAssembly on Docker

You need to enable `containerd` to run WebAssembly, so you can configure on your Docker Desktop.

<img width="1261" alt="image" src="https://github.com/shinyay/100DaysOfLearnRustInOneMonthOfLunches/assets/3072734/c3212e9b-45ba-4c7d-9ec5-36654aee6555">

#### Hello World WebAssembly Sample

At first just code for simple, like Hello World.

```rust
fun main() {
    println!("Hello, WebAssembly");
}
```

And then build it.

```shell
cargo init
rustup target add wasm32-wasi
cargo build --target wasm32-wasi --release
```

You can find the Wasm image under `target/wasm32-wasi/release/` directory.

```shell
ls -l target/wasm32-wasi/release/wasm-on-docker.wasm
```

```shell
-rwxr-xr-x  1 yanagiharas  staff  2093833 Jul  7 11:02 target/wasm32-wasi/release/wasm-on-docker.wasm*
```

So now you can run the Wasm with `wasmtime`.

```shell
wasmtime target/wasm32-wasi/release/wasm-on-docker.wasm
```

```shell
Hello, WebAssembly
```

#### Rust Docker Image

You find the Rust Container Images:

- [Rust - Official Image](https://hub.docker.com/_/rust)

Then you can make the Dockerfile such as the following:

```dockerfile
FROM --platform=$BUILDPLATFORM rust:1.70-slim-bullseye as build

COPY Cargo.toml .
COPY Cargo.lock .
COPY src src

RUN rustup target add wasm32-wasi
RUN cargo build --target wasm32-wasi --release

FROM scratch

COPY --from=build /target/wasm32-wasi/release/wasm-on-docker.wasm /hello.wasm

ENTRYPOINT [ "hello.wasm" ]
```

Then you can run build docker image:

```shell
docker build -f Dockerfile -t docker-wasm:1.0
```

<details>
<summary>[+] Building 23.8s (13/13) FINISHED
 => [internal] load .dockerignore</summary>

```shell
[+] Building 23.8s (13/13) FINISHED
 => [internal] load .dockerignore                                                                                                                                                                    0.0s
 => => transferring context: 2B                                                                                                                                                                      0.0s
 => [internal] load build definition from Dockerfile                                                                                                                                                 0.0s
 => => transferring dockerfile: 356B                                                                                                                                                                 0.0s
 => [internal] load metadata for docker.io/library/rust:1.70-slim-bullseye                                                                                                                           3.4s
 => [auth] library/rust:pull token for registry-1.docker.io                                                                                                                                          0.0s
 => [build 1/6] FROM docker.io/library/rust:1.70-slim-bullseye@sha256:d1f62de1372e7103b9973848c3f873abfb73a6668ce4b0af2fe57fd9e32178b8                                                              11.4s
 => => resolve docker.io/library/rust:1.70-slim-bullseye@sha256:d1f62de1372e7103b9973848c3f873abfb73a6668ce4b0af2fe57fd9e32178b8                                                                     0.0s
 => => sha256:3d32f2bb54c4b0263c632cc36fefdc8b536380d3d8f0a7445ba644fc60bd775c 251.51MB / 251.51MB                                                                                                   5.1s
 => => sha256:9d21b12d5fab9ab82969054d72411ce627c209257df64b6057016c981e163c30 31.42MB / 31.42MB                                                                                                     1.2s
 => => extracting sha256:9d21b12d5fab9ab82969054d72411ce627c209257df64b6057016c981e163c30                                                                                                            2.6s
 => => extracting sha256:3d32f2bb54c4b0263c632cc36fefdc8b536380d3d8f0a7445ba644fc60bd775c                                                                                                            6.3s
 => [internal] load build context                                                                                                                                                                    0.0s
 => => transferring context: 423B                                                                                                                                                                    0.0s
 => [build 2/6] COPY Cargo.toml .                                                                                                                                                                    0.3s
 => [build 3/6] COPY Cargo.lock .                                                                                                                                                                    0.0s
 => [build 4/6] COPY src src                                                                                                                                                                         0.0s
 => [build 5/6] RUN rustup target add wasm32-wasi                                                                                                                                                    5.4s
 => [build 6/6] RUN cargo build --target wasm32-wasi --release                                                                                                                                       0.5s
 => [stage-1 1/1] COPY --from=build /target/wasm32-wasi/release/wasm-on-docker.wasm /hello.wasm                                                                                                      0.0s
 => exporting to image                                                                                                                                                                               0.2s
 => => exporting layers                                                                                                                                                                              0.1s
 => => exporting manifest sha256:822539c4ef50a92108df5803fd2ded1cc870ee5053ae2071c06d22c0b99f928d                                                                                                    0.0s
 => => exporting config sha256:f11794d089d13614297ac9a50a1ff57427098d04d121f0bda9498f535643d1e1                                                                                                      0.0s
 => => exporting attestation manifest sha256:a3bfcc8dec452e41cb6a1ab5f2412374106ae196f8d57cc808efd216e21766d3                                                                                        0.0s
 => => exporting manifest list sha256:11e66d7f7ba5a3b70e4c8d66a03725062b91c55f479fa03a0cc2e2d310b2ddb4                                                                                               0.0s
 => => naming to docker.io/library/docker-wasm:1.0                                                                                                                                                   0.0s
 => => unpacking to docker.io/library/docker-wasm:1.0
```
</details>

Now you can run:

```shell
docker run --runtime=io.containerd.wasmedge.v1 docker-wasm:1.0
```

- [Running a Wasm application with `docker run`](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/wasm/#running-a-wasm-application-with-docker-run)

#### Hello World Native Rust Sample

```dockerfile
FROM --platform=$BUILDPLATFORM rust:1.70-slim-bullseye as build

COPY Cargo.toml .
COPY Cargo.lock .
COPY src src

RUN RUSTFLAGS='-C target-feature=+crt-static' cargo build --release

FROM scratch

COPY --from=build /target/release/wasm-on-docker /native

ENTRYPOINT [ "native" ]
```

```shell
docker build -f Dockerfile-native -t docker-rust-native:1.0 .
```

```shell
REPOSITORY            TAG                                                     IMAGE ID       CREATED          SIZE
docker-rust-native    1.0                                                     a05879bcefeb   17 seconds ago   7.32MB
docker-wasm           1.0                                                     d03324f56cf5   13 minutes ago   2.61MB
```

## Key Takeaways
