Day044/day044.md, before:

# Day 44

## Notes

### The pattern of `Traits`

There are some ways to declare `Traits`. Here is how I organize them.

#### Basic type using impl

For a given structure, a method is defined that uses the values it holds.

```rust
struct Point {
    x: u32,
    y: u32,
}

impl Point {
    fn x(&self) -> u32 {
        self.x
    }

    fn y(&self) -> u32 {
        self.y
    }
    
    fn area(&self) -> u32 {
        self.x * self.y
    }
}

fn main() {
    let p = Point { x: 1280, y: 800 };

    println!("p.x = {} / p.y = {}", p.x(), p.y());
    println!("area = {}", p.area());

}
```

#### The Case for Using Generics

If the structure uses generics `T` and you need to deal with `T` in the methods you implement, you must start the declaration with `impl<T>`.

```rust
struct Point<T> {
    x: T,
    y: T,
}

impl<T> Point<T> {
    fn x(&self) -> &T {
        &self.x
    }

    fn y(&self) -> &T {
        &self.y
    }
}

fn main() {
    let p = Point { x: 1280, y: 800 };

    println!("p.x = {} / p.y = {}", p.x(), p.y());
}
```

#### The Case for Implementing Traits

When you declare `impl A for B`, the method is implemented for `B`

```rust
struct Point {
    x: u32,
    y: u32,
} 

trait DisplayPoint {
    fn x(&self) -> u32;

    fn y(&self) -> u32;
    
    fn area(&self) -> u32;
}

impl DisplayPoint for Point {
       fn x(&self) -> u32 {
        self.x
    }

    fn y(&self) -> u32 {
        self.y
    }
    
    fn area(&self) -> u32 {
        self.x * self.y
    } 
}

fn main() {
    let p = Point { x: 1280, y: 800 };

    println!("p.x = {} / p.y = {}", p.x(), p.y());
    println!("area = {}", p.area());
}
```

## Key Takeaways

Commit message:

Add The Case where method bodies are defined in trait and impl clause

Day044/day044.md, after:

# Day 44

## Notes

### The pattern of `Traits`

There are some ways to declare `Traits`. Here is how I organize them.

#### Basic type using impl

For a given structure, a method is defined that uses the values it holds.

```rust
struct Point {
    x: u32,
    y: u32,
}

impl Point {
    fn x(&self) -> u32 {
        self.x
    }

    fn y(&self) -> u32 {
        self.y
    }
    
    fn area(&self) -> u32 {
        self.x * self.y
    }
}

fn main() {
    let p = Point { x: 1280, y: 800 };

    println!("p.x = {} / p.y = {}", p.x(), p.y());
    println!("area = {}", p.area());

}
```

#### The Case for Using Generics

If the structure uses generics `T` and you need to deal with `T` in the methods you implement, you must start the declaration with `impl<T>`.

```rust
struct Point<T> {
    x: T,
    y: T,
}

impl<T> Point<T> {
    fn x(&self) -> &T {
        &self.x
    }

    fn y(&self) -> &T {
        &self.y
    }
}

fn main() {
    let p = Point { x: 1280, y: 800 };

    println!("p.x = {} / p.y = {}", p.x(), p.y());
}
```

#### The Case for Implementing Traits

When you declare `impl A for B`, the method is implemented for `B`

```rust
struct Point {
    x: u32,
    y: u32,
} 

trait DisplayPoint {
    fn x(&self) -> u32;

    fn y(&self) -> u32;
    
    fn area(&self) -> u32;
}

impl DisplayPoint for Point {
       fn x(&self) -> u32 {
        self.x
    }

    fn y(&self) -> u32 {
        self.y
    }
    
    fn area(&self) -> u32 {
        self.x * self.y
    } 
}

fn main() {
    let p = Point { x: 1280, y: 800 };

    println!("p.x = {} / p.y = {}", p.x(), p.y());
    println!("area = {}", p.area());
}
```

#### The Case where method bodies are defined in trait and impl clause

## Key Takeaways
