Day013/day013.md, before:

# Day 13

## Notes

### References

The relationship between reference and lifetime is important.

The folloing `return_str` function is to return a reference to the `String`.

```rust
fn return_str() -> &String {
    let some_string = String::from("String");
    lt string_ref = &some_string;
    string_ref // When this function ends, the reference also ends since some_string lives during this function.
}
fn main() {
    let some_string = return_str();
}
```

### Mutable references

- `&mut`: Mutable reference
  - You can change data with the reference

```rust
fn main() {
    let mut today = 13;
    println!("i32: {today}");

    let today_ref = &mut today;
    println!("ref mut i32: {today_ref}");

    *today_ref += 1;
    println!("ref mut i32: {today_ref}");
}
```

- `*`: the value behind the reference
  - `*` is the opposite of `&`
  - `*` erases one `&`

So now you can say:

- **`&`**: Referencing
- **`*`**: Dereferencing

### References Rule

- **Rust cannot have mutable and immutable references at the same time.**

```rust
fn main() {
    let mut today = 13;
    let today_ref = &today;
    let today_change = &mut today;
    *today_change += 1;

    println!("{}", today_ref);
    println!("{}", today_change);
}
```

## Key Takeaways

Commit message:

Add Error error[E0502]: cannot borrow `today` as mutable because it is also borrowed as immutable

Day013/day013.md, after:

# Day 13

## Notes

### References

The relationship between reference and lifetime is important.

The folloing `return_str` function is to return a reference to the `String`.

```rust
fn return_str() -> &String {
    let some_string = String::from("String");
    lt string_ref = &some_string;
    string_ref // When this function ends, the reference also ends since some_string lives during this function.
}
fn main() {
    let some_string = return_str();
}
```

### Mutable references

- `&mut`: Mutable reference
  - You can change data with the reference

```rust
fn main() {
    let mut today = 13;
    println!("i32: {today}");

    let today_ref = &mut today;
    println!("ref mut i32: {today_ref}");

    *today_ref += 1;
    println!("ref mut i32: {today_ref}");
}
```

- `*`: the value behind the reference
  - `*` is the opposite of `&`
  - `*` erases one `&`

So now you can say:

- **`&`**: Referencing
- **`*`**: Dereferencing

### References Rule

- **Rust cannot have mutable and immutable references at the same time.**

```rust
fn main() {
    let mut today = 13;
    let today_ref = &today;
    let today_change = &mut today;
    *today_change += 1;

    println!("{}", today_ref);
    println!("{}", today_change);
}
```

```text
error[E0502]: cannot borrow `today` as mutable because it is also borrowed as immutable
```

## Key Takeaways
