# Day 54

## Notes

### Methods for closures and iterators (Cycling, zipping, folding)

- [pub fn chunks(&self, chunk_size: usize) -> Chunks<'_, T>](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/primitive.slice.html#method.chunks)
  - Returns an iterator over chunk_size elements of the slice at a time, starting at the beginning of the slice.
  - The chunks are slices and do not overlap. If chunk_size does not divide the length of the slice, then the last chunk will not have length chunk_size.

```rust
fn main() {
    let my_slice = ['H', 'e', 'l', 'l', 'o', 'R', 'u', 's', 't', '!'];
    println!("Chunk size: 3");
    for chunk in my_slice.chunks(3) {
        println!("{:?}", chunk);
    }
    println!("Chunk size: 5");
    for chunk in my_slice.chunks(5) {
        println!("{:?}", chunk);
    }
}
```

```shell
Chunk size: 3
['H', 'e', 'l']
['l', 'o', 'R']
['u', 's', 't']
['!']
Chunk size: 5
['H', 'e', 'l', 'l', 'o']
['R', 'u', 's', 't', '!']
```

- [`pub fn windows(&self, size: usize) -> Windows<'_, T>`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/primitive.slice.html#method.windows)
  - Returns an iterator over all contiguous windows of length size. The windows overlap. If the slice is shorter than size, the iterator returns no values.

- [`pub fn match_indices<'a, P>(&'a self, pat: P) -> MatchIndices<'a, P>`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/string/struct.String.html#method.match_indices)
  - An iterator over the disjoint matches of a pattern within this string slice as well as the index that the match starts at.
  - For matches of pat within self that overlap, only the indices corresponding to the first match are returned.

```rust
fn main() {
    let dna_pattern = "CTCGAGAGTATATGTTGTTGAACGTTATTGTTTGAGAAATAGTTGATGCATCAGAATGGTTTGCATTTAT";
    let analysis: Vec<_> = dna_pattern.match_indices("TTG").collect();
    println!("{:?}", analysis);
}
```

```shell
[(14, "TTG"), (17, "TTG"), (27, "TTG"), (31, "TTG"), (42, "TTG"), (60, "TTG")]
```

- [`fn peekable(self) -> Peekable<Self>`](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/iter/trait.Iterator.html#method.peekable)
  - Creates an iterator which can use the `peek` and `peek_mut` methods to look at the next element of the iterator without consuming it.
  - Note that the underlying iterator is still advanced when `peek` or `peek_mut` are called for the first time: In order to retrieve the `next` element, next is called on the underlying iterator, hence any side effects (i.e. anything other than fetching the next value) of the `next` method will occur.
- [pub fn peek(&mut self) -> Option<&<I as Iterator>::Item>](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/iter/struct.Peekable.html#method.peek)
  - Returns a reference to the `next()` value without advancing the iterator.
  - Like next, if there is a value, it is wrapped in a `Some(T)`. But if the iteration is over, `None` is returned.
  - Because `peek()` returns a reference, and many iterators iterate over references, there can be a possibly confusing situation where the return value is a double reference. You can see this effect in the examples below.

## Key Takeaways
