Day029/day029.md, before:

# Day 29

## Notes

Today I would like to use a WebAssembly development framework called **Spin** provided by **[Fermyon](https://www.fermyon.com/)**.

### Let's get started - Spin and Fermyon Cloud

- [Fermyon Cloud Introduction](https://developer.fermyon.com/cloud/index)

#### Install Spin

First, install the Spin CLI.

```shell
curl -fsSL https://developer.fermyon.com/downloads/install.sh | bash
sudo mv ./spin /usr/local/bin/spin
```

or, using `cargo` command

```shell
git clone https://github.com/fermyon/spin -b v1.3.0
cd spin
rustup target add wasm32-wasi
cargo install --locked --path .
```

#### Create a Spin Application Template

```shell
spin new
```

```shell
> http-rust (HTTP request handler using Rust)
```

```shell
Enter a name for your new application: hello_spin
Project description: Getting Started with Spin by Rust
HTTP base: /
HTTP path: /...
```

##### `spin.toml` - the manifest for a Spin application

```toml
spin_manifest_version = "1"
authors = ["shinyay <shinya.com@gmail.com>"]
description = "Getting Started with Spin by Rust"
name = "hello_spin"
trigger = { type = "http", base = "/" }
version = "0.1.0"

[[component]]
id = "hello-spin"
source = "target/wasm32-wasi/release/hello_spin.wasm"
allowed_http_hosts = []
[component.trigger]
route = "/..."
[component.build]
command = "cargo build --target wasm32-wasi --release"
watch = ["src/**/*.rs", "Cargo.toml"]
```

##### `lib.rs` - the application logic

```rust
use anyhow::Result;
use spin_sdk::{
    http::{Request, Response},
    http_component,
};

/// A simple Spin HTTP component.
#[http_component]
fn handle_hello_spin(req: Request) -> Result<Response> {
    println!("{:?}", req.headers());
    Ok(http::Response::builder()
        .status(200)
        .header("foo", "bar")
        .body(Some("Hello, Fermyon".into()))?)
}
```

#### Build the application

Now build spin application by the following command:

- `spin build`: Build the Spin application
  - `-c, --component-id <COMPONENT_ID>...`
  - `-f, --from <APP_MANIFEST_FILE>`
  - `-u, --up`

```shell
spin build
```

```shell
Building component hello-spin with `cargo build --target wasm32-wasi --release`
   Compiling version_check v0.9.4
   Compiling proc-macro2 v1.0.63
    :
    :
   Compiling wit-bindgen-rust v0.2.0 (https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wit-bindgen?rev=cb871cfa1ee460b51eb1d144b175b9aab9c50aba#cb871cfa)
   Compiling hello-spin v0.1.0 (/Users/yanagiharas/Works/rust/100DaysOfLearnRustInOneMonthOfLunches/Day029/app/hello_spin)
    Finished release [optimized] target(s) in 15.04s
Finished building all Spin components
```

#### Run the application

Run the spin application by the following command:

- `spin up`
  - `-e, --env <ENV>`
  - `-f, --from <APPLICATION>`
  - `-k, --insecure`

```shell
spin up
```

```shell
Logging component stdio to ".spin/logs/"

Serving http://127.0.0.1:3000
Available Routes:
  hello-spin: http://127.0.0.1:3000 (wildcard)
```

```shell
curl -X GET localhost:3000
```

```shell
Hello, Fermyon
```

## Key Takeaways

Commit message:

Add the response from spin application

Day029/day029.md, after:

# Day 29

## Notes

Today I would like to use a WebAssembly development framework called **Spin** provided by **[Fermyon](https://www.fermyon.com/)**.

### Let's get started - Spin and Fermyon Cloud

- [Fermyon Cloud Introduction](https://developer.fermyon.com/cloud/index)

#### Install Spin

First, install the Spin CLI.

```shell
curl -fsSL https://developer.fermyon.com/downloads/install.sh | bash
sudo mv ./spin /usr/local/bin/spin
```

or, using `cargo` command

```shell
git clone https://github.com/fermyon/spin -b v1.3.0
cd spin
rustup target add wasm32-wasi
cargo install --locked --path .
```

#### Create a Spin Application Template

```shell
spin new
```

```shell
> http-rust (HTTP request handler using Rust)
```

```shell
Enter a name for your new application: hello_spin
Project description: Getting Started with Spin by Rust
HTTP base: /
HTTP path: /...
```

##### `spin.toml` - the manifest for a Spin application

```toml
spin_manifest_version = "1"
authors = ["shinyay <shinya.com@gmail.com>"]
description = "Getting Started with Spin by Rust"
name = "hello_spin"
trigger = { type = "http", base = "/" }
version = "0.1.0"

[[component]]
id = "hello-spin"
source = "target/wasm32-wasi/release/hello_spin.wasm"
allowed_http_hosts = []
[component.trigger]
route = "/..."
[component.build]
command = "cargo build --target wasm32-wasi --release"
watch = ["src/**/*.rs", "Cargo.toml"]
```

##### `lib.rs` - the application logic

```rust
use anyhow::Result;
use spin_sdk::{
    http::{Request, Response},
    http_component,
};

/// A simple Spin HTTP component.
#[http_component]
fn handle_hello_spin(req: Request) -> Result<Response> {
    println!("{:?}", req.headers());
    Ok(http::Response::builder()
        .status(200)
        .header("foo", "bar")
        .body(Some("Hello, Fermyon".into()))?)
}
```

#### Build the application

Now build spin application by the following command:

- `spin build`: Build the Spin application
  - `-c, --component-id <COMPONENT_ID>...`
  - `-f, --from <APP_MANIFEST_FILE>`
  - `-u, --up`

```shell
spin build
```

```shell
Building component hello-spin with `cargo build --target wasm32-wasi --release`
   Compiling version_check v0.9.4
   Compiling proc-macro2 v1.0.63
    :
    :
   Compiling wit-bindgen-rust v0.2.0 (https://github.com/bytecodealliance/wit-bindgen?rev=cb871cfa1ee460b51eb1d144b175b9aab9c50aba#cb871cfa)
   Compiling hello-spin v0.1.0 (/Users/yanagiharas/Works/rust/100DaysOfLearnRustInOneMonthOfLunches/Day029/app/hello_spin)
    Finished release [optimized] target(s) in 15.04s
Finished building all Spin components
```

#### Run the application

Run the spin application by the following command:

- `spin up`
  - `-e, --env <ENV>`
  - `-f, --from <APPLICATION>`
  - `-k, --insecure`

```shell
spin up
```

```shell
Logging component stdio to ".spin/logs/"

Serving http://127.0.0.1:3000
Available Routes:
  hello-spin: http://127.0.0.1:3000 (wildcard)
```

Now you can get the response from the application:

```shell
curl -X GET localhost:3000
```

```shell
Hello, Fermyon
```

## Key Takeaways
