# Day 70

## Notes

### Types of closures

In Rust, closures are a convenient way to define anonymous functions that can capture variables from their surrounding environment. Closures are flexible and come in three different flavors or traits: `Fn`, `FnMut`, and `FnOnce`. These traits determine how the closure can capture and manipulate variables.

1. **`Fn` Closures**:
   Closures that implement the `Fn` trait can only capture variables by reference. They can't modify the captured variables. They are used when you only need to read the captured variables within the closure.

2. **`FnMut` Closures**:
   Closures that implement the `FnMut` trait can capture variables by mutable reference. They can modify the captured variables. They are used when you need to modify the captured variables within the closure.

3. **`FnOnce` Closures**:
   Closures that implement the `FnOnce` trait can capture variables by value. They take ownership of the captured variables and can consume them. They are used when you need to move the captured variables into the closure.

Here's a quick example to illustrate the differences:

- `Fn` sample

```rust
fn main() {
    let default_value = 10;
    let my_closure = |x: u32| {
        println!("Variable: {}", x);
        default_value * x
    };

    let result = my_closure(1);
    assert_eq!(10, result);
    println!("Result: {:?}", result);

    let result = my_closure(5);
    assert_eq!(50, result);
    println!("Result: {:?}", result);

    let result = my_closure(10);
    assert_eq!(100, result);
    println!("Result: {:?}", result);
}
```

- `FnMut` sample

```rust
fn main() {
    let mut init_value = 10;
    let mut my_closure = |x: i32| {
        println!("Initial Value: {}", init_value);
        init_value = init_value + x
    };

    my_closure(10);
    my_closure(10);
    my_closure(10);
    println!("Result: {}", init_value);
    assert_eq!(40, init_value);
}
```

```shell
Initial Value: 10
Initial Value: 20
Initial Value: 30
Result: 40
```

In this example, the `Fn` closure `fn_closure` captures `x` by reference and only reads it. The `FnMut` closure `fn_mut_closure` captures `x` by mutable reference, allowing it to modify `x`. The `FnOnce` closure `fn_once_closure` captures `x` by value, consuming it.

Remember that closures are versatile tools in Rust, allowing you to encapsulate functionality with different levels of access to captured variables. The choice of which trait to use depends on whether you only need to read, need to modify, or want to consume the captured variables.

## Key Takeaways
