Day082/day082.md, before:

# Day 82

## Notes

### `'static` lifetime

Meeting the `'static` lifetime requirement in Rust means that a value has a lifetime that is guaranteed to last for the entire duration of the program. The `'static` lifetime is the longest possible lifetime, and it indicates that the value will exist for the entire duration that the program is running.

When a value has the `'static` lifetime, it means that it is not tied to any particular scope or function. It can be safely accessed from any part of the program without the risk of it becoming invalid or being deallocated prematurely. Rust's ownership and borrowing system ensures that data with the `'static` lifetime is accessible and usable without any lifetime-related errors.

In practical terms, data with the `'static` lifetime is often used for global constants, string literals, and other data that need to be available throughout the program's execution. For example, string literals like `"Hello, World!"` have the `'static` lifetime because they are baked into the compiled program and exist for its entire runtime.

Meeting the `'static` lifetime requirement is crucial for ensuring memory safety and preventing dangling references or other memory-related issues in Rust programs.

### Longer Lifetime / Shorter Lifetime Than 'static

**Passing Data with Longer Lifetime Than `'static`:**

In this example, we're using `Arc` to share ownership of the data with the thread. The data's effective lifetime is longer than `'static` because it's kept alive by the `Arc` reference count.

```rust
use std::sync::Arc;
use std::thread;

fn main() {
    let data = vec![1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
    let shared_data = Arc::new(data.clone());

    let handle = thread::spawn(move || {
        println!("Thread: {:?}", shared_data);
    });

    handle.join().unwrap();
    println!("Main thread: {:?}", data);
}
```

**Passing Data with Shorter Lifetime Than `'static` (Error):**

In this example, we're attempting to pass a reference to the `data` vector to the thread. This results in a compilation error because the reference's lifetime is shorter than `'static`, and Rust cannot guarantee that the reference will be valid for the entire thread's lifetime.

```rust
use std::thread;

fn main() {
    let data = vec![1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
    let reference_to_data = &data;

    let handle = thread::spawn(move || {
        // Compilation error: `reference_to_data` has a shorter lifetime
        // than the thread's lifetime
        println!("Thread: {:?}", reference_to_data);
    });

    handle.join().unwrap();
    println!("Main thread: {:?}", data);
}
```



### Regular threads and 'static guarantee

When you use regular threads (spawned using `std::thread::spawn`), you need to ensure that the data you're passing to the thread lives long enough to satisfy the `'static` lifetime requirement. This requirement is because threads can outlive the scope they were created in, and Rust's ownership system ensures that data is valid and accessible for the entire lifetime of the thread.

However, sometimes you want to pass non-`'static` data to a thread. In such cases, you have a couple of options:

1. **Using `Arc` (Atomic Reference Counting):** `Arc` allows you to share ownership of data across threads. It increases the reference count when cloned and decreases it when the reference goes out of scope. This allows you to ensure that the data lives as long as there are references to it.

2. **Using the `move` Keyword:** When you spawn a thread and pass data to it, you can use the `move` keyword to transfer ownership of the data to the thread. This means that the data will move into the thread's scope, and you no longer have access to it in the main thread. This approach is particularly useful when you have non-`'static` data that you want to use within the thread.

Here's an example to illustrate these concepts:

```rust
use std::sync::Arc;
use std::thread;

fn main() {
    let data = vec![1, 2, 3, 4, 5];

    // Using Arc to share ownership with regular threads
    let shared_data = Arc::new(data.clone());
    let handle = thread::spawn(move || {
        // Inside the thread, you can access shared_data
        println!("Thread: {:?}", shared_data);
    });

    // Main thread still has ownership of data
    println!("Main thread: {:?}", data);

    // Wait for the thread to finish
    handle.join().unwrap();
}
```

In this example, we use `Arc` to share ownership of `data` with the thread spawned by `thread::spawn`. This ensures that the data outlives the thread and satisfies the `'static` requirement. Additionally, we use the `move` keyword to transfer ownership of `data` to the thread, which means the main thread no longer has access to it.

Remember that `Arc` is for shared ownership, and the `move` keyword is for transferring ownership to the thread. Choose the approach that fits your specific use case and the lifetime requirements of the data you're working with.

## Key Takeaways

Commit message:

Add the error in the shorter lifetime case

Day082/day082.md, after:

# Day 82

## Notes

### `'static` lifetime

Meeting the `'static` lifetime requirement in Rust means that a value has a lifetime that is guaranteed to last for the entire duration of the program. The `'static` lifetime is the longest possible lifetime, and it indicates that the value will exist for the entire duration that the program is running.

When a value has the `'static` lifetime, it means that it is not tied to any particular scope or function. It can be safely accessed from any part of the program without the risk of it becoming invalid or being deallocated prematurely. Rust's ownership and borrowing system ensures that data with the `'static` lifetime is accessible and usable without any lifetime-related errors.

In practical terms, data with the `'static` lifetime is often used for global constants, string literals, and other data that need to be available throughout the program's execution. For example, string literals like `"Hello, World!"` have the `'static` lifetime because they are baked into the compiled program and exist for its entire runtime.

Meeting the `'static` lifetime requirement is crucial for ensuring memory safety and preventing dangling references or other memory-related issues in Rust programs.

### Longer Lifetime / Shorter Lifetime Than 'static

**Passing Data with Longer Lifetime Than `'static`:**

In this example, we're using `Arc` to share ownership of the data with the thread. The data's effective lifetime is longer than `'static` because it's kept alive by the `Arc` reference count.

```rust
use std::sync::Arc;
use std::thread;

fn main() {
    let data = vec![1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
    let shared_data = Arc::new(data.clone());

    let handle = thread::spawn(move || {
        println!("Thread: {:?}", shared_data);
    });

    handle.join().unwrap();
    println!("Main thread: {:?}", data);
}
```

**Passing Data with Shorter Lifetime Than `'static` (Error):**

In this example, we're attempting to pass a reference to the `data` vector to the thread. This results in a compilation error because the reference's lifetime is shorter than `'static`, and Rust cannot guarantee that the reference will be valid for the entire thread's lifetime.

```rust
use std::thread;

fn main() {
    let data = vec![1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
    let reference_to_data = &data;

    let handle = thread::spawn(move || {
        // Compilation error: `reference_to_data` has a shorter lifetime
        // than the thread's lifetime
        println!("Thread: {:?}", reference_to_data);
    });

    handle.join().unwrap();
    println!("Main thread: {:?}", data);
}
```

In the second example, you will encounter a compilation error similar to:

```shell
error[E0597]: `data` does not live long enough
 --> src/main.rs:10:37
  |
9 |     let handle = thread::spawn(move || {
  |                  ----------------- value moved into closure here
10 |         println!("Thread: {:?}", reference_to_data);
  |                                     ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^ value borrowed here after move
...
14 | }
  | - `data` dropped here while still borrowed
```

The error occurs because Rust cannot ensure that the borrowed reference `reference_to_data` will remain valid for the entire lifetime of the spawned thread.

### Regular threads and 'static guarantee

When you use regular threads (spawned using `std::thread::spawn`), you need to ensure that the data you're passing to the thread lives long enough to satisfy the `'static` lifetime requirement. This requirement is because threads can outlive the scope they were created in, and Rust's ownership system ensures that data is valid and accessible for the entire lifetime of the thread.

However, sometimes you want to pass non-`'static` data to a thread. In such cases, you have a couple of options:

1. **Using `Arc` (Atomic Reference Counting):** `Arc` allows you to share ownership of data across threads. It increases the reference count when cloned and decreases it when the reference goes out of scope. This allows you to ensure that the data lives as long as there are references to it.

2. **Using the `move` Keyword:** When you spawn a thread and pass data to it, you can use the `move` keyword to transfer ownership of the data to the thread. This means that the data will move into the thread's scope, and you no longer have access to it in the main thread. This approach is particularly useful when you have non-`'static` data that you want to use within the thread.

Here's an example to illustrate these concepts:

```rust
use std::sync::Arc;
use std::thread;

fn main() {
    let data = vec![1, 2, 3, 4, 5];

    // Using Arc to share ownership with regular threads
    let shared_data = Arc::new(data.clone());
    let handle = thread::spawn(move || {
        // Inside the thread, you can access shared_data
        println!("Thread: {:?}", shared_data);
    });

    // Main thread still has ownership of data
    println!("Main thread: {:?}", data);

    // Wait for the thread to finish
    handle.join().unwrap();
}
```

In this example, we use `Arc` to share ownership of `data` with the thread spawned by `thread::spawn`. This ensures that the data outlives the thread and satisfies the `'static` requirement. Additionally, we use the `move` keyword to transfer ownership of `data` to the thread, which means the main thread no longer has access to it.

Remember that `Arc` is for shared ownership, and the `move` keyword is for transferring ownership to the thread. Choose the approach that fits your specific use case and the lifetime requirements of the data you're working with.

## Key Takeaways
