Day081/day081.md, before:

# Day 82

## Notes

### Arc and Mutex

Combining `Arc` (Atomic Reference Counting) and `Mutex` in Rust is a common approach to safely share mutable data across multiple threads. `Arc` allows multiple ownership of data, ensuring that the data is dropped only when the last reference is gone. `Mutex`, on the other hand, ensures exclusive access to data, preventing data races.

The combination of `Arc` and `Mutex` is useful when you need to share a mutable resource across multiple threads while ensuring thread safety. It's important to note that `Arc` only provides shared ownership, which means multiple threads can have read-only access to the data simultaneously. To modify the data, you need to use a `Mutex` to ensure that only one thread at a time has write access.

Here's a sample code that demonstrates combining `Arc` and `Mutex` to safely share and mutate data across threads:

```rust
use std::sync::{Arc, Mutex};
use std::thread;

fn main() {
    // Create a mutable data structure wrapped in a Mutex
    let shared_data = Arc::new(Mutex::new(vec![1, 2, 3]));

    let mut handles = vec![];

    for i in 0..3 {
        // Clone the Arc for each thread
        let data_clone = Arc::clone(&shared_data);

        // Spawn a new thread
        let handle = thread::spawn(move || {
            // Lock the Mutex to access the shared data
            let mut data = data_clone.lock().unwrap();
            data[i] += 10; // Modify the data
        });

        handles.push(handle);
    }

    // Wait for all threads to finish
    for handle in handles {
        handle.join().unwrap();
    }

    // Lock the Mutex in the main thread to access the modified data
    let final_data = shared_data.lock().unwrap();
    println!("Modified data: {:?}", *final_data);
}
```

In this example, a mutable vector is wrapped in a `Mutex` and then wrapped in an `Arc`. Each spawned thread clones the `Arc` and locks the `Mutex` to access and modify the shared data. After all threads finish, the main thread locks the `Mutex` again to access the modified data. This ensures that the data is safely shared and modified across threads while preventing data races.



## Key Takeaways

Commit message:

Add a notice of Arc and Mutex

Day081/day081.md, after:

# Day 82

## Notes

### Arc and Mutex

Combining `Arc` (Atomic Reference Counting) and `Mutex` in Rust is a common approach to safely share mutable data across multiple threads. `Arc` allows multiple ownership of data, ensuring that the data is dropped only when the last reference is gone. `Mutex`, on the other hand, ensures exclusive access to data, preventing data races.

The combination of `Arc` and `Mutex` is useful when you need to share a mutable resource across multiple threads while ensuring thread safety. It's important to note that `Arc` only provides shared ownership, which means multiple threads can have read-only access to the data simultaneously. To modify the data, you need to use a `Mutex` to ensure that only one thread at a time has write access.

Here's a sample code that demonstrates combining `Arc` and `Mutex` to safely share and mutate data across threads:

```rust
use std::sync::{Arc, Mutex};
use std::thread;

fn main() {
    // Create a mutable data structure wrapped in a Mutex
    let shared_data = Arc::new(Mutex::new(vec![1, 2, 3]));

    let mut handles = vec![];

    for i in 0..3 {
        // Clone the Arc for each thread
        let data_clone = Arc::clone(&shared_data);

        // Spawn a new thread
        let handle = thread::spawn(move || {
            // Lock the Mutex to access the shared data
            let mut data = data_clone.lock().unwrap();
            data[i] += 10; // Modify the data
        });

        handles.push(handle);
    }

    // Wait for all threads to finish
    for handle in handles {
        handle.join().unwrap();
    }

    // Lock the Mutex in the main thread to access the modified data
    let final_data = shared_data.lock().unwrap();
    println!("Modified data: {:?}", *final_data);
}
```

In this example, a mutable vector is wrapped in a `Mutex` and then wrapped in an `Arc`. Each spawned thread clones the `Arc` and locks the `Mutex` to access and modify the shared data. After all threads finish, the main thread locks the `Mutex` again to access the modified data. This ensures that the data is safely shared and modified across threads while preventing data races.

Remember that combining `Arc` and `Mutex` incurs some performance overhead due to the atomic operations involved. It's important to use this approach judiciously based on the specific requirements of your application.

## Key Takeaways
