Day084/day084.md, before:

# Day 84

## Notes

A channel in Rust is like a secure messaging system for threads. It's a way for threads to send and receive information or data in a well-organized and synchronized manner. Just as workers in a factory use a conveyor belt to move items between them safely and without chaos, Rust's channels help threads communicate and share data without causing conflicts or confusion.

### Channel basic

Imagine you have two workers (threads) in a factory, and they need to share information or items with each other. However, they can't just shout across the room, as that might lead to chaos or confusion. Instead, they need a way to pass messages or objects back and forth safely.

Channels in Rust provide a structured and organized way for threads to communicate. They work like a conveyor belt between the workers:

#### 1. **Creating a Channel:**

First, you create a channel using the `std::sync::mpsc` module (which stands for "multiple producer, single consumer"). Think of this as setting up the conveyor belt.

   ```rust
   use std::sync::mpsc;

   let (sender, receiver) = mpsc::channel();
   ```

Here, `sender` is like one worker placing items on the conveyor, and `receiver` is the other worker taking items off the conveyor.

#### 2. **Sending Data:**

In one thread (producer), you can use the `sender` to send data or messages onto the channel. This data could be anything you want to share between the threads.

   ```rust
   sender.send(1).unwrap();
   ```

In this example, we're sending the number `42` onto the channel.

Commit message:

Add receiving data with mpsc

Day084/day084.md, after:

# Day 84

## Notes

A channel in Rust is like a secure messaging system for threads. It's a way for threads to send and receive information or data in a well-organized and synchronized manner. Just as workers in a factory use a conveyor belt to move items between them safely and without chaos, Rust's channels help threads communicate and share data without causing conflicts or confusion.

### Channel basic

Imagine you have two workers (threads) in a factory, and they need to share information or items with each other. However, they can't just shout across the room, as that might lead to chaos or confusion. Instead, they need a way to pass messages or objects back and forth safely.

Channels in Rust provide a structured and organized way for threads to communicate. They work like a conveyor belt between the workers:

#### 1. **Creating a Channel:**

First, you create a channel using the `std::sync::mpsc` module (which stands for "multiple producer, single consumer"). Think of this as setting up the conveyor belt.

   ```rust
   use std::sync::mpsc;

   let (sender, receiver) = mpsc::channel();
   ```

Here, `sender` is like one worker placing items on the conveyor, and `receiver` is the other worker taking items off the conveyor.

#### 2. **Sending Data:**

In one thread (producer), you can use the `sender` to send data or messages onto the channel. This data could be anything you want to share between the threads.

   ```rust
   sender.send(1).unwrap();
   ```

In this example, we're sending the number `1` onto the channel.


#### 3. **Receiving Data:**

In the other thread (consumer), you use the `receiver` to receive the data that was sent on the channel. This is a synchronized operation, meaning the receiver will wait until data is available.

   ```rust
   let received_data = receiver.recv().unwrap();
   ```

Here, `recv()` waits for data to arrive and then retrieves it. In this case, `received_data` would be `1`.



## Key Takeaways
