Day010/day010.md, before:

# Day 10

## Notes

### Display and Debug

```rust
fn main() {
    let doesnt_print = ();
    // println!("This will not print: {}", doesnt_print);

    println!("This will print with {{:?}} : {:?}", doesnt_print);

    println!("This will pretty-print {{:#?}} : {:#?}", doesnt_print);
}
```

- [Rust Playground](https://play.rust-lang.org/?version=stable&mode=debug&edition=2021&gist=8ce47f755e816b0c0a554a1e58adef54)

3 ways of printings:

- `{}` : **Display print**
- `{:?}` : **Debug print**
- `{:#?}` : **Debug pretty-print** ('Pretty' means that each part of a type is printed on its own line to make it easier to read.)

### The range of Numbers

```text
MIN to MAX
i8   : -128 to 127
u8   : 0 to 255
i16  : -32768 to 32767
u16  : 0 to 65535
i32  : -2147483648 to 2147483647
u32  : 0 to 4294967295
i64  : -9223372036854775808 to 9223372036854775807
u64  : 0 to 18446744073709551615
i128 : -170141183460469231731687303715884105728 to 170141183460469231731687303715884105727
u128 : 0 to 340282366920938463463374607431768211455
```

### Mutability and Shadowing

## Key Takeaways

Commit message:

Add mutability with let definition

Day010/day010.md, after:

# Day 10

## Notes

### Display and Debug

```rust
fn main() {
    let doesnt_print = ();
    // println!("This will not print: {}", doesnt_print);

    println!("This will print with {{:?}} : {:?}", doesnt_print);

    println!("This will pretty-print {{:#?}} : {:#?}", doesnt_print);
}
```

- [Rust Playground](https://play.rust-lang.org/?version=stable&mode=debug&edition=2021&gist=8ce47f755e816b0c0a554a1e58adef54)

3 ways of printings:

- `{}` : **Display print**
- `{:?}` : **Debug print**
- `{:#?}` : **Debug pretty-print** ('Pretty' means that each part of a type is printed on its own line to make it easier to read.)

### The range of Numbers

```text
MIN to MAX
i8   : -128 to 127
u8   : 0 to 255
i16  : -32768 to 32767
u16  : 0 to 65535
i32  : -2147483648 to 2147483647
u32  : 0 to 4294967295
i64  : -9223372036854775808 to 9223372036854775807
u64  : 0 to 18446744073709551615
i128 : -170141183460469231731687303715884105728 to 170141183460469231731687303715884105727
u128 : 0 to 340282366920938463463374607431768211455
```

### Mutability and Shadowing

When you declare a variable with `let`, it is **immutable**.

```rust
let x = 1;
x = 2;
```

So you can't overwrite the variable,

```text
let x = 1;
    -
    |
    first assignment to `x`
    help: consider making this binding mutable: `mut x`
```

## Key Takeaways
