Day048/day048.md, before:

# Day 48

## Notes

Closures are like quick functions that **don't need a name**.
They use `||` instead of `()`. 

### Closures

Take a look at this, which the simplest sample for the Closure:

```rust
fn main() {
    let my_closure = || println!("Hello, Closure!");
    my_closure();
}
```

The point is `||`.
The `||` can have the input variable and type, like `()` for a function:

```rust
fn main() {
    let my_closure = |x: &str| println!("Hello, {x}!");
    my_closure("Closure");
    my_closure("Rust");
    my_closure("Shinya");
}
```

In addition to it, `||` can includes **"Code Block**:

```rust
fn main() {
    let my_closure = |x: i32| {
        let multiplier = 10;
        let devider = 2;

        println!("Calc1: {} x {} = {}", x, multiplier, x * multiplier);
        println!("Calc2: {} / {} = {}", x, devider, x / devider);
    };
    
    my_closure(10);
    my_closure(2);
}
```

- A `||` that doesn't enclose a variable from outside is an **"Anonymous Function"**. Anonymous means "doesn't have a name". It works more like a regular function.
- A `||` that does enclose a variable from outside is also anonymous, but called a "closure". It "encloses" the variables around it to use them.

Clousures are often used with iterator and the related methods, like `.map()`, `.for_each()` and etc.

```rust
fn main() {
    let my_vec = vec![1, 2, 3, 4, 5];

    // let result_doubled: Vec<i32> = my_vec        
    //     .iter()                     
    //     .map(|number| number * 2)   
    //     .collect();   

    let result_doubled = my_vec        
        .iter()                     
        .map(|number| number * 2)   
        .collect::<Vec<i32>>();

    println!("{:?}", result_doubled);
}
```

- `enumarate()`
  - It gives an **iterator** with the **index number** and the **item**.

```rust
fn main() {
    let my_vec = vec![1, 2, 3, 4, 5];

    my_vec
        .iter()
        .enumerate()
        .for_each(|(index, value)| println!("Index: {} - Value: {}", index, value));
}
```

## Key Takeaways

Commit message:

Add the reason for the iteraor laziness

Day048/day048.md, after:

# Day 48

## Notes

Closures are like quick functions that **don't need a name**.
They use `||` instead of `()`. 

### Closures

Take a look at this, which the simplest sample for the Closure:

```rust
fn main() {
    let my_closure = || println!("Hello, Closure!");
    my_closure();
}
```

The point is `||`.
The `||` can have the input variable and type, like `()` for a function:

```rust
fn main() {
    let my_closure = |x: &str| println!("Hello, {x}!");
    my_closure("Closure");
    my_closure("Rust");
    my_closure("Shinya");
}
```

In addition to it, `||` can includes **"Code Block**:

```rust
fn main() {
    let my_closure = |x: i32| {
        let multiplier = 10;
        let devider = 2;

        println!("Calc1: {} x {} = {}", x, multiplier, x * multiplier);
        println!("Calc2: {} / {} = {}", x, devider, x / devider);
    };
    
    my_closure(10);
    my_closure(2);
}
```

- A `||` that doesn't enclose a variable from outside is an **"Anonymous Function"**. Anonymous means "doesn't have a name". It works more like a regular function.
- A `||` that does enclose a variable from outside is also anonymous, but called a "closure". It "encloses" the variables around it to use them.

Clousures are often used with iterator and the related methods, like `.map()`, `.for_each()` and etc.

```rust
fn main() {
    let my_vec = vec![1, 2, 3, 4, 5];

    // let result_doubled: Vec<i32> = my_vec        
    //     .iter()                     
    //     .map(|number| number * 2)   
    //     .collect();   

    let result_doubled = my_vec        
        .iter()                     
        .map(|number| number * 2)   
        .collect::<Vec<i32>>();

    println!("{:?}", result_doubled);
}
```

- `enumarate()`
  - It gives an **iterator** with the **index number** and the **item**.

```rust
fn main() {
    let my_vec = vec![1, 2, 3, 4, 5];

    my_vec
        .iter()
        .enumerate()
        .for_each(|(index, value)| println!("Index: {} - Value: {}", index, value));
}
```

By the way, you cannot use `map()` instead of `for_each()`.
The reason is **iterators are lazy and do nothing unless consumed**.

## Key Takeaways
