Day028/day028.md, before:

# Day 28

## Notes

Today I begin Chapter 5, Generics, Option, and Result.

- **Generics** - When you want to use more than one type
- **Option** - When an operation might produce a value, but maybe not
- **Result** - When an operation might succeed, but maybe not

### Generics

Before thinking of Generics, let's take a look at the following sample:

```rust
fn print_number(number: u8) -> u8 {
    println!("Here is your number: {}", number);
    number
}

fn main() {
    let number = print_number(255);
    println!("Return Value: {number}");
}
```

- [Rust Playground](https://play.rust-lang.org/?version=stable&mode=debug&edition=2021&gist=6c6fdb864af121d46f6e2be9103ef279)

Now, what we need to consider is that it takes `u8` as a parameter and returns `u8` as a return value.
That is, the minimum value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`. What about the cases where the value is in a range other than this?

For example, `let number = print_number(256);`:

```shell
7 |     let number = print_number(256);
  |                               ^^^
  |
  = note: the literal `256` does not fit into the type `u8` whose range is `0..=255`
  = note: `#[deny(overflowing_literals)]` on by default

```

In other words, it needs to be able to accommodate a variety of types.

For **Generics**, you use angle brackets with the type inside, like this: **`<T>`**

- `<T>`
  - If you don't put the **angle blacket**, it becomes error
- `number: T`
- `-> T`

```rust
use std::fmt::Debug;

fn print_number<T:Debug>(number: T) -> T {
    println!("Here is your number: {:?}", number);
    number
}

fn main() {
    let number = print_number(256);
    println!("Return Value: {number}");
}
```

- [Rust Playground](https://play.rust-lang.org/?version=stable&mode=debug&edition=2021&gist=0993448dfd1cfe78d9db84690d33b441)

The above sample has an unfamiliar description added:

```rust
use std::fmt::Debug;

fn print_number<T:Debug>(number: T) -> T {
```

Without it, the function has an error:

```text
error[E0277]: `T` doesn't implement `Debug`
 --> src/main.rs:4:43
  |
4 |     println!("Here is your number: {:?}", number);
  |                                           ^^^^^^ `T` cannot be formatted using `{:?}` because it doesn't implement `Debug`
```

## Key Takeaways

Commit message:

Add T has been implemented Debug

Day028/day028.md, after:

# Day 28

## Notes

Today I begin Chapter 5, Generics, Option, and Result.

- **Generics** - When you want to use more than one type
- **Option** - When an operation might produce a value, but maybe not
- **Result** - When an operation might succeed, but maybe not

### Generics

Before thinking of Generics, let's take a look at the following sample:

```rust
fn print_number(number: u8) -> u8 {
    println!("Here is your number: {}", number);
    number
}

fn main() {
    let number = print_number(255);
    println!("Return Value: {number}");
}
```

- [Rust Playground](https://play.rust-lang.org/?version=stable&mode=debug&edition=2021&gist=6c6fdb864af121d46f6e2be9103ef279)

Now, what we need to consider is that it takes `u8` as a parameter and returns `u8` as a return value.
That is, the minimum value is `0` and the maximum value is `255`. What about the cases where the value is in a range other than this?

For example, `let number = print_number(256);`:

```shell
7 |     let number = print_number(256);
  |                               ^^^
  |
  = note: the literal `256` does not fit into the type `u8` whose range is `0..=255`
  = note: `#[deny(overflowing_literals)]` on by default

```

In other words, it needs to be able to accommodate a variety of types.

For **Generics**, you use angle brackets with the type inside, like this: **`<T>`**

- `<T>`
  - If you don't put the **angle blacket**, it becomes error
- `number: T`
- `-> T`

```rust
use std::fmt::Debug;

fn print_number<T:Debug>(number: T) -> T {
    println!("Here is your number: {:?}", number);
    number
}

fn main() {
    let number = print_number(256);
    println!("Return Value: {number}");
}
```

- [Rust Playground](https://play.rust-lang.org/?version=stable&mode=debug&edition=2021&gist=0993448dfd1cfe78d9db84690d33b441)

The above sample has an unfamiliar description added:

```rust
use std::fmt::Debug;

fn print_number<T:Debug>(number: T) -> T {
```

Without it, the function has an error:

```text
error[E0277]: `T` doesn't implement `Debug`
 --> src/main.rs:4:43
  |
4 |     println!("Here is your number: {:?}", number);
  |                                           ^^^^^^ `T` cannot be formatted using `{:?}` because it doesn't implement `Debug`
```

The unfamiliar description `<T:Debug>(` in the previous sample implied the following.

> "Don't worry, any type `T` for this function will implement `Debug`"

## Key Takeaways
